<p>Minecraft is the world&apos;s best-selling computer game and soon to be a Hollywood film. This is why children can&apos;t get enough of it.
</p><p>AJ Minotti has three children – and they all love playing Minecraft. His twin girls aged 10 and his six-year-old son are constantly building stuff with the endless supply of virtual blocks that fill the game. And Minotti, who works in marketing in Ohio, sometimes gets blown away with what they come up with.</p><p></p><p>&quot;Dad, I want to show you something,&quot; one of his daughters said to him recently as she held out the screen of her Nintendo Switch. Her avatar stood before a waterfall. After pressing an in-game button, the waterfall stopped, revealing the entrance to a cave. Inside was a subterranean super-lair complete with interactive lighting and display areas for items that she had collected in the game.</p><p></p>

<p>&quot;It was like this whole underground mansion, basically,&quot; says Minotti, marvelling. &quot;I was super impressed by it.&quot; His daughter had followed some YouTube tutorials but also came up with much of the design herself. &quot;It takes me back to the feelings I had when I was a kid just hacking away on a computer,&quot; says Minotti.</p><p></p><p>Minecraft is one of the most popular video games of all time. First released in 2009, it had sold more than 300 million copies by 2023. It, and similar games including Roblox and Terraria, are enjoyed by gamers of all ages, from young children to adults.</p><p></p>

<p>The game seems able absorb the attention of children for up to hours at a time – no mean feat in our distraction-filled age. Some parents fear their children&apos;s interest in Minecraft can border on obsession, or even addiction, as they struggle to tear them away from the computer screen.</p><p></p><p>Minecraft&apos;s popularity is such that it has now spawned a highly anticipated Hollywood film called A Minecraft Movie, starring Jack Black and Jason Momoa, which is due to be released in April 2025.</p><p></p><p>There could be deep psychological – even evolutionary – factors behind the success of Minecraft and games like it, say experts. Such games tap into an innate instinct within all of us – one that underpins the success of our entire species. The desire to build.</p>

<p>An autopsy carried out on murdered west Belfast man, John George, showed he was stabbed before being shot, according to the family’s solicitor.</p><p>&quot;We can confirm the family have received an autopsy report from the Spanish authorities,&quot; said Kevin Winters.</p><p>&quot;The findings point to John having been stabbed before being shot,&quot; he added.</p><p>He said that as a precautionary measure and in order to make sure there was clarity on the cause of death &quot;we have instructed another pathologist to conduct a second autopsy on Johns remains&quot;.</p><p>A second autopsy is to be conducted next week.</p><p>The news comes as an international arrest warrant was issued by Spanish authorities for the man suspected of murdering the 37-year-old father of two.</p><p>Earlier this month, a thirty-two-year-old man from the Czech Republic was bailed by a judge under strict conditions.</p><p>He is being investigated as an alleged accomplice for the murder.</p><p>Spanish authorities have now confirmed three separate arrest warrants are now out for the individual suspected of carrying out the murder.</p><p>Meanwhile, drugs charges brought against Mr George have been formally withdrawn.</p><p>He faced prosecution over the seizure of £30,000 worth of cannabis from a taxi he was stopped in.</p><p>On Tuesday, a judge at Belfast Magistrates’ Court agreed to end the case against him following confirmation of his death in Spain.</p>

<!-- the 15 crime story -->
<p>Secondary schools and youth clubs in Bristol will soon have access to a film about preventing knife violence, following the death of two best friends.</p><p>Mason Rist, 15, and Max Dixon, 16, were ambushed in a case of mistaken identity outside Mason's home on 27 January 2024.</p><p>The film, titled Safer Together, was produced by community organisation Unique Voice CIC to highlight the importance of uniting communities and tackling violence.</p><p>Speaking about the tensions that led to the boys' deaths, Max's mother, Leanne Ekland, said: &quot;We need to start removing that invisible line and bringing our communities together so there's no such thing as a postcode war.&quot;</p><p>&quot;Max and Mason weren't postcodes - they were two lovely boys - and to be focussed on a postcode, I'm never going to get my head around that,&quot; continued Ms Ekland</p><p>&quot;Max and Mason didn't care where you came from.</p><p>&quot;And to have died because of a postcode war, it's really hard to get my head around.&quot;</p><p>Both Max and Mason were from Knowle West and attended Oasis Academy John Williams.</p><p>Their killers, who lived three miles away in Hartcliffe, attacked them with machetes.</p><p>Riley Tolliver, Kodi-Shai Wescott, and two teenagers who cannot be named for legal reasons were all sentenced to life in prison.</p><p>Anthony Snook, a 45-year-old man who acted as their getaway driver, was also jailed for life.</p><p>The rivalry between Hartcliffe and Knowle West dates back decades.</p><p>However, in the wake of the murders, schools from both communities recognised the need for unity and took action.</p><p>Pupils from different neighbourhoods were brought together to build friendships in a safe environment.</p><p>Ms Ekland returned to Oasis Academy John Williams, where she once worked, to take part in one of these sessions.</p><p>While she found it difficult to be back, she was encouraged by the new friendships she witnessed forming.</p><p>&quot;As soon as I walk through the doors, I want to see [Max's] face, but I don't.</p><p>&quot;I see where he could be sitting, where he would be walking across the bridge, and I know that's never going to happen.</p><p>&quot;We should bring our children together, let them interact, and be friends - regardless of where they come from.&quot;</p><p>Andrea Rea, Vice Principal of Oasis Academy John Williams, acknowledged the fear felt by young people after the murders.</p><p>&quot;There was a general fear about being out and about in the community, and that's what made us realise we needed to do something,&quot; she said.</p><p>&quot;We need young people's voices to guide us in how we best move forward. We must act because we cannot afford to lose any more children.&quot;</p><p>Liz Hackling, assistant headteacher at Bridge Learning Campus, believes the sessions have fostered hope for uniting local communities.</p><p>&quot;Those relationships have been built, and they won't be broken now,&quot; she said.</p><p>Out of these sessions, Safer Together was created and will be shown in youth clubs and secondary schools across Bristol to raise awareness of knife violence.</p><p>In memory of Mason Rist, his mother, Nikki Knight, is setting up the Mason Rist Memorial Trust.</p><p>The charity aims to provide financial support for vulnerable pupils who may struggle to afford essential school supplies such as stationery.</p><p>Although the charity is yet to be formally established, it hopes to provide assistance both in the UK and overseas, tailoring support to each young person to ensure they have access to a good education.</p><p>The charity's Facebook page mentions how Mason had &quot;always loved to help people.&quot;</p><p>Meanwhile, a foundation in Max Dixon's name is already operational.</p><p>Last week, the Max Dixon Foundation distributed its first batch of bleed kits across Bristol.</p><p>The foundation was set up by Ms Ekland in partnership with community football club Knowle FC, where Max was an under-16s captain.</p><p>The charity has begun a new round of fundraising to provide more bleed kits, designed to be compact enough to fit in glove boxes of cars, taxis, and coaches.</p><p>Through these initiatives, the families of Max and Mason hope to prevent further tragedies and bring communities together in their memory.</p>